[DRAFT] feat: draft of lessons learned on publish security (#538)
pyOpenSci/pyopensci.github.io: _posts/2024-12-13-python-packaging-security.md

`pip install zizmor`

Then, ask it to check a specific workflow file (or set of files).

Below, I ran it on our pyosMeta PyPI build. Among other things, it found a template injection risk in our build that we can easily fix by adding a sanitization step discussed below!

PyPI really is on top of things!

```bash
$ zizmor .github/workflows/publish-pypi.yml

error[template-injection]: code injection via template expansion
   --> path/here/pyosMeta/.github/workflows/publish-pypi.yml:97:7
github.ref_name may expand into attacker-controllable code
```

You can also set up `zizmor` as a pre-commit hook. pyOpenSci plans to do this in the near future, but here is an example of it [setup for core Python](https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/127749/files#diff-63a9c44a44acf85fea213a857769990937107cf072831e1a26808cfde9d096b9R64).

Pre-commit hooks run checks every time you commit a file to git history. [Learn more about using them here.](https://www.pyopensci.org/python-package-guide/package-structure-code/code-style-linting-format.html#use-pre-commit-hooks-to-run-code-formatters-and-linters-on-commits)

## Other security measures you can consider

> There are other things that we can learn too from the recent breach. Many of htese will be identified if you setup zizmor. These are discussed below.

Author: ```suggestion
There are other things that we can learn too from the recent breach. Many of these will be identified if you set up zizmor. These are discussed below.
```

Instead of a pull_request_target or a pull_request, consider adopting a **release-based publishing workflow**. This approach:

- Triggers publication workflows only on new versioned releases. You can lock down which maintainers are allowed to create releases using GitHub permissions
- Ensure workflows related to publishing are explicitly scoped to `release` events.

In the example GitHub action .yaml file below, you see a `release` trigger defined. This tells the action to only trigger the workflow when you publish a release.

```yaml
name: Publish to PyPI
on:
  # By using release - only people with admin access to make releases to our repo can trigger the push to PyPI
  release:
    types: [published]
```

Using a release-based workflow ensures that your publishing step is tightly controlled. A pull request will never accidentally trigger a publish build. This reduces your risk!

> 

Author: Add: a few sentences on 

delete old tokens and secrets containing pypi tokens... this is easy for people to do and good for them to know about.

## Don’t cache package dependencies in your publish step

> Caching dependencies involves storing dependencies to be reused in future workflow runs. This approach saves time, as GitHub doesn’t need to redownload all dependencies each time the workflow runs.

Author: This is where I'm confused about pinning deps, as that doesn't seem like a good idea for users when I think about environments and dependency conflict nightmares.

Reviewer: For deploy workflows or anything creating release artifacts end users might use, I think I've heard from @sethmlarson that it makes sense to reduce the number of dependencies you're using where possible: you can't have problems with a hacked dependency you're not using.

That should also reduce the conflict nightmares when pinning things...

Author: Thanks Hugo! This helps clarify what I was struggling with! I'll rewrite this sentence to discuss the concept more broadly! I see that seth also gave this a thumbs up!

---
layout: single

> title: "Staying Secure: Best Practices for Publishing Python Packages to PyPI"

Author: ```suggestion
title: "How to Secure Your Python Packages on PyPI: Stop the Mining Madness"
```

> excerpt: "blah"

Author: ```suggestion
excerpt: "Learn how to secure your Python package PyPI publishing workflows and protect your package from attacks. This post covers actionable steps, using PyPI Trusted Publisher, and sanitizing workflows, to ensure your projects stay safe."
```

author: "Leah Wasser"
permalink: /blog/python-packaging-security-publish-pypi.html
header:
  overlay_image: images/headers/pyopensci-inessa.png
  overlay_filter: rgba(20, 13, 36, 0.3)
categories:
  - blog-post
  - community
classes: wide
toc: true
comments: true
last_modified: 2024-12-13
---

## Is your PyPI publication workflow secure?

> The recent Python package breach [involving Ultralytics](https://blog.pypi.org/posts/2024-12-11-ultralytics-attack-analysis/) has highlighted the need for secure PyPI publishing workflows. Hackers exploited a GitHub workflow (`pull_request_target`) to inject malicious code, which was published to PyPI. Users who downloaded the package unknowingly allowed their machines to be hijacked for Bitcoin mining.

Author: OOOOH no way. i missed the Google Colab part!! that's a pretty bold move for a hacker? maybe they were new hackers ?

> The recent Python package breach [involving Ultralytics](https://blog.pypi.org/posts/2024-12-11-ultralytics-attack-analysis/) has highlighted the need for secure PyPI publishing workflows. Hackers exploited a GitHub workflow (`pull_request_target`) to inject malicious code, which was published to PyPI. Users who downloaded the package unknowingly allowed their machines to be hijacked for Bitcoin mining.

Author: geez. it's amazing how quick and far-reaching this single incident was!

> Hackers tricked a Python package into running bad code, using other people’s computers to mine Bitcoin without permission. Yikes!

While unsettling, there’s a silver lining: the PyPI security team had already addressed most of the issues that caused this breach.

{% include pyos-blockquote.html quote="Because the Ultralytics project was using Trusted Publishing and the PyPA’s publishing GitHub Action: PyPI staff, volunteers, and security researchers were able to dig into how maliciously injected software was able to make its way into the package." author="Seth Larson, PSF Security Expert" class="highlight magenta" %}

This incident underscores the importance of understanding Python packaging security best practices.

In this blog post, we'll cover the lessons learned that you can apply - TODAY - to your own Python packaging workflows!

<div class="notice" markdown="1">
## TL&DR Takeaways

The Ultralytics breach is a wake-up call for all maintainers: secure your workflows now to protect your users and the Python ecosystem. Start with these key actions:

### 🔐 Secure your workflows 🔐

> - 🚫 Avoid risky events like `pull_request_target` and adopt release-based workflows.

Author: good point - fixed!!

- 🚫 Avoid risky trigger events in GitHub actions like `pull_request_target`
- Consider using publish workflows on GitHub that are triggered by a [GitHub release](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/releasing-projects-on-github/managing-releases-in-a-repository) rather than a pull request merge.

> - ♻️ Don’t cache dependencies in your publish workflows to prevent tampering.

Author: ok. This is super helpful. I could remove the caching part altogether, given so many moving pieces and caching seems more nuanced then just locking down the workflow itself with better triggers and  tighter permissions. But I also have a question about the dependencies. Because it is my understanding and experience that pinning all deps can also be highly problematic for users. For instance, if you have an environment with many different packages and try installing a package with pinned dips, that could lead to significant user issues. 

Unless we're just talking about dips in the workflow itself, such as hatch, pypa/build, etc. 

web apps make sense to pin but i can't quite wrap my head around pinning deps for a package. Could you please help me understand? And do you agree - maybe for more beginner users we just drop caching altogether as a topic?

> - If you reference branches in a pull request, clean or sanitize branch names in your workflow.

Author: Great suggestions!! I may add these links lower down in the post at the end, so the takeaways are just text.. but I'll definitely include them. This is what I have now:

- If you reference branches in a pull request, clean or [sanitize branch names](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/using-git/dealing-with-special-characters-in-branch-and-tag-names) in your workflow.
- Consider using [zizmor](https://woodruffw.github.io/zizmor/) to check your GitHub workflows for security vulnerabilities!

i haven't used zizmor yet but i saw a package that Hugo maintains uses it so i may try it out with stravalib and pyosmeta!!

### Lock down GitHub repo access
- 🔒 Restrict repository access to essential maintainers only.

> - ✅ Add automated checks to ensure releases are authorized and secure.

Author: Looking at the blog posts, it seemed like the hackers somehow got direct access to that repo. Did i read that wrong?

### Strengthen PyPI security
- 🔑 Set up Trusted Publisher for tokenless authentication with PyPI.

> - 📱 Enable 2FA for your PyPI account and store recovery codes securely.

Author: Ok, I hear you. I've added this:

- Delete old GitHub tokens that you are no longer using. And Refresh existing tokens that you need periodically. 

I'll likely remove 2FA altogether, given it's required. I doubt most users understand why making tokens infinitely valid is bad!

These steps will significantly reduce risks to your packages, contributors, and the broader Python ecosystem. Don’t wait—start securing your workflows today.
</div>

## A call to action if you are publishing to PyPI using GitHub actions

> What's important for us is that this event highlights the need for our ecosystem to follow and understand secure PyPI publishing practices and carefully monitor workflows. And the good news here is that if you are already publishing to PyPI using a GitHub action, there are things you can do RIGHT NOW to ensure your build is more secure.

Author: here, I'm referring to GitHub actions in general but our examples do use the pypa action . But you are making a good point. 

i'll come back to this comment and will make sure that point is super clear in the text.

**Takeaway:**  Don’t cache dependencies in your Python package publishing workflow. Always download fresh dependencies to ensure you’re using the latest secure versions of any packages your project depends on.

Below is an example of a build that caches dependencies.

```yaml
name: Build and Test

on:
  push:
    branches:
      - main
  pull_request:

jobs:
  build:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    steps:
      # Step 1: Check out the repository
      - name: Check out repository
        uses: actions/checkout@v3

      # Step 2: Set up Python
      - name: Set up Python
        uses: actions/setup-python@v4
        with:
          python-version: '3.12'

      # Step 3: Cache dependencies
      - name: Cache dependencies
        uses: actions/cache@v3
        with:
          path: ~/.cache/pip
          key: ${{ runner.os }}-pip-${{ hashFiles('**/requirements.txt') }}
          restore-keys: |
            ${{ runner.os }}-pip-

      # Step 4: Install dependencies
      - name: Install dependencies
        run: pip install -r requirements.txt

      # Step 5: Publish to PyPI

>       ...

Author: i will add a link to that packaging guide. And i see why this example may direct users incorrectly. in fact, i remember you telling me this last year when we were working on pyosMeta to update that build!

```

## 4. Use Trusted Publisher for PyPI

> If you only [publish locally to PyPI using the command line](https://www.pyopensci.org/python-package-guide/tutorials/publish-pypi.html), you need to use a PyPI token. However, if you’re using GitHub Actions to automate your publishing process, setting up **Trusted Publisher** is a more secure option.

Reviewer 2: IIRC @woodruffw was against claiming that TP is more secure, so we settled on saying that it's “as secure” but is more convenient in many regards in the README of `pypi-publish`.

Author: oh. that's different from my understanding of trusted publishing. I thought that TP provides a secure "pipeline" between the workflow and PyPI vs. a token that I suppose provides access to PyPi, but it doesn't necessarily directly connect to the workflow (i.e., you can specify a specific environment and workflow file with a trusted publisher. 

This statement challenges my understanding of trusted publisher. @woodruffw IF you happen to have a moment to clarify that would be super helpful.

> A Trusted Publisher setup creates a secure "pipeline" between PyPI and your GitHub repository because:

Reviewer 2: Personally, I like calling it a “trust link”. Perhaps, @woodruffw would have opinions on the wordings/metaphors here.

Author: I like the pipe idea as it's a visual people can understand even if it's not perfect. An isolated pipe or channel where files (sdist, wheel) can "travel" and be verified between GitHub and PyPI. 🤷🏻‍♀️  maybe there is a better visual but i want to help people understand why this is a good way to design a build / publish workflow. 

I want to create a graphic to help people understand this, as I think some of these important concepts get lost because it's all so technical!

But i say that knowing that you and others are experts - i'm just trying to simplify so more people can apply some of these things!

> - PyPI is allowed to authenticate your builds directly, so no additional configuration is required.

Author: Fixed!

> - It restricts publishing to specific workflows and environments defined in your repository.

Reviewer 2: Technically, the environment is attached to a job in a workflow. This is the information PyPI would receive when looking up the trust link. Environments, however, can also be additionally configured in repository settings on GitHub. The recommended environment name is `pypi`. And the recommended configuration is having required reviewers (which would pause said job on GH, requiring a human to click the button).

Author: @webknjaz I have not set this up myself and just noticed this feature after reading your comment. thank you. I really don't think people know about this stuff. 

TODO: I'll add a small note about how to do that in the post with a screenshot of what the interface looks like.

> This setup eliminates the need to store sensitive tokens as GitHub secrets, significantly reducing the risk of token theft or unauthorized publication.

Reviewer 2: I don't fully agree with that note on unauthorized publication. Unauthorized publication can be prevented by controlling the trigger of the release process. Or setting up required reviewers in the environment used in the publishing job (usually called `pypi`) — this would prevent said job from even starting until a trusted human being clicks a button on GH. Recording the environment name on the PyPI side, though, allows restricting the “identity” of the workflow+repo+env that is to be considered “trusted”. But this only works on the authentication level between PyPI and GH. But not between GH and human, which is what you also want to secure.

Author: ok, I am still working through your comments, but after I plan to reread the entire thing, and i'll reframe it. concepts:

1. trusted publisher is a great way to go - not necessarily BETTER than tokens. Perhaps more streamlined and simpler to set up. it's think we just suggest people do that. it eliminates GitHub secretes AND it eliminates needing to set up a PyPI project FIRST using a user-scoped token (because the project doesn't exist on PyPI yet). 

People will forget the step of updating their token to be project-level scope. So a trusted publisher, in my mind, is less risky for a user because it's simpler.   

2. For your build workflows, use environments that are secured and controlled by trusted humans -- (I can provide screenshots of how to set that up). This means that a publish workflow won't run until someone with access to the repo physically OKs the build. 

maybe there is a graphic here to simplify and help people understand what you wrote above?

gh + human authorization
github + PyPI authorization 

These are two different but related and important concepts. And they are high-level. like if people need to remember 2 things - these are the things.

### How to get started

> [PyPI provides a great guide to getting started with Trusted Publisher](https://docs.pypi.org/trusted-publishers/adding-a-publisher/).

Reviewer 2: cc @woodruffw apparently we forgot to update the screenshots in the warehouse doc to show `pypi` as the environment name.

Author: Oops! I can open an issue if that is helpful in warehouse?

The basic steps associated with Trusted Publisher are:
1. Go to your PyPI account and add a trusted publisher workflow to your account.

> 2. Fill out a form that looks like the one below. Notice that it asks for your workflow name, (optional) environment, and package name.

Reviewer 2: Maybe, don't mention that the environment is optional if this post is focused on maximizing security.

Author: good point!! changed to (they will see optional in the image!)

environment (STRONGLY recommended)

> 3. Update your GitHub action workflow to reference the Trusted Publisher configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Update your GitHub Actions workflow to reference the Trusted Publisher configuration.
```

A GitHub Action (singular) is a different thing — it's just one of the steps in a job that is reusable.

<figure>
  <picture>
    <source srcset="/images/python-packaging/trusted-publisher-form.webp" type="image/webp">
    <img src="trusted-publisher-form.webp" alt="PyPI Trusted Publisher form example showing settings for linking a GitHub repository with PyPI for secure publishing." loading="lazy">
  </picture>
  <figcaption>
    Example of the PyPI Trusted Publisher form, used to securely link a GitHub repository with PyPI for publishing Python packages. Trusted Publisher reduces the risk of token theft and improves overall security.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

You can see how to set up GitHub Actions securely in our own [PyPI publishing GitHub workflow](https://github.com/pyOpenSci/pyosMeta/blob/main/.github/workflows/publish-pypi.yml), which follows the Trusted Publisher approach.

> **Note:** Trusted Publisher workflows are currently only available for GitHub. Support for GitLab may be coming in the future—stay tuned!

Reviewer 2: In the doc you already linked, there's an example for GitLab as well: https://docs.pypi.org/trusted-publishers/adding-a-publisher/#gitlab-cicd. There are 4 platforms that support this mechanism already, and I saw some Bitbucket folks asking around whether they can integrate.

Author: fixed the breakout and added that link!! I somehow read that GitLab support wasn't available yet, but obviously, I wasn't looking in the right place! thanks!

{: .notice }

## 5. Create a dedicated environment for publish actions

Use isolated environments in combination with Trusted Publisher in your GitHub workflow to publish to PyPI.
Isolated environments ensure your publishing process remains secure even if other parts of your CI pipeline are compromised.

> If you look at the pyometra workflow, notice that we have an [environment called `pypi`](https://github.com/pyOpenSci/pyosMeta/blob/main/.github/workflows/publish-pypi.yml#L57) that is used for trusted publishing. By setting this up, we have created a direct pipeline between this action and PyPI via the PyPI environment and the trusted publisher setup, which refers to the workflow file's name.

Reviewer 2: When referencing files on GH UI, make sure to always replace the branch name (`main`) with a commit sha. This is because branches are moving pointers to different commits. When the file changes or gets moved, the unversioned links would be misleading or start pointing to some other line. This is the way to make permalinks that survive time.

Author: fixed!

```yaml
  publish:
    name: >-
      Publish Python 🐍 distribution 📦 to PyPI

>     if: github.repository_owner == 'pyopensci'

Reviewer 2: I started using the exact repository ID some time ago. This is more accurate and would survive renames and transfers:
```suggestion
    if: github.repository_id == 174412809
```
(looked up @ https://api.github.com/repos/pyOpenSci/pyopensci.github.io)

If you want to check for the org, you could use the org ID. Org names are mutable and if the org gets renamed for whatever reason (might be a user account that hosts a repo in some cases), this check would break.

Author: Ok great. yes, I worry the ID would be a bit harder for users to understand/find/use, etc., and yes, readability too!! thank you! I'll resolve this.

- **Enable 2FA (2-factor authentication)** for both PyPI and GitHub to prevent unauthorized access. Store recovery codes securely (e.g., in a password manager).
- **Revoke old tokens**: If you've previously created PyPI API tokens or GitHub secrets, delete any unused or outdated ones.
- **Restrict repository access**: Limit write access to a trusted subset of maintainers. Most contributors don’t need direct write access, which reduces security risks.

## Learn More

pyOpenSci follows best practices for PyPI publishing using our custom GitHub Actions workflow. Check out our tutorial on Python packaging here:
👉 [pyOpenSci Packaging Tutorial](https://www.pyopensci.org/python-package-guide/package-structure-code/python-package-structure.html)
👉 Join our discourse here

<div class="notice" markdown="1">
## Get involved with pyOpenSci

* Keep an eye on our [events page](/events.html) for upcoming training events.

Follow us on social platforms:

* [<i class="fa-brands fa-discourse"></i> Discourse](https://pyopensci.discourse.group/)
* [<i class="fa-brands fa-mastodon"></i> Mastodon](https://fosstodon.org/@pyopensci)

> * [<i class="fa-solid fa-cloud"></i> Bluesky](https://bsky.app/profile/pyopensci.bsky.social)

Reviewer 2: > [!tip]
> *Pro tip:* consider updating the Bluesky username to `pyopensci.org`. This can be configured and verified in like 3 minutes (through either DNS or a `.well-known` document on the website, but adds credibility to the account). You can create a repository in the org, call in `.well-known`, and add a file with the account DID as follows: https://github.com/webknjaz/.well-known/commit/5a3c3104aca2cf8b55c54acc8cf3363692c4604d. Just don't forget to enable Pages in the repo settings before clicking `Verify`.

Author: WOAH!! i never knew about this for bluesky!.  
thank you for this tip - and for all of the thoughtful feedback. i'm going to work on this some more tomorrow!

  <figcaption>
    To create a new environment to use in a GitHub action, 1) go to your repo's settings; 2) click <kbd>environment</kbd>; 3) add a new environment. In this screenshot, we already have a <kbd>pypi</kbd> environment created. Note that you can name your environment whatever you want, however, PyPI suggests that you use the name <kbd>pypi</kbd> for a Trusted Publisher workflow.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

<figure>
    <img src="/images/python-packaging/github-action-environment-pypi.png" alt="Screenshot of the GitHub settings interface showing the ‘Environments’ section with configuration options for ‘pypi.’ The ‘Deployment protection rules’ section is visible, with ‘Required reviewers’ enabled and two reviewers listed: ‘lwasser’ and ‘willingc.’ Other options such as ‘Prevent self-review’ and ‘Wait timer’ are present but not enabled.">
  <figcaption>
    GitHub environment settings for “pypi,” displaying deployment protection rules with required reviewers configured for workflow approvals.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

## 2. 🔑 Use Trusted Publisher for PyPI

Now that you have a GitHub environment setup, you can set up Trusted Publisher in your PyPI account.

> A Trusted Publisher setup creates a short-lived secure link between PyPI and your repository.

Reviewer 3: Maybe remove "short-lived" from this sentence? The underlying implementation of Trusted Publishers uses short-lived credentials, but the link itself is durable!

Author: fixed!

  </picture>
  <figcaption>
    Example of the PyPI Trusted Publisher setup in PyPI once you've created the Trusted PuUblisher link by filling the form out above.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

**Note:** Read more here about [support for publishing to GitLab](https://docs.pypi.org/trusted-publishers/adding-a-publisher/#gitlab-cicd) using trusted publishing.
{: .notice }

## 3. Add `zizmor` to your CI workflows

Finally, consider adding [Zizmor](https://woodruffw.github.io/zizmor/) to your CI and pre-commit checks.

Zizmor is a static analysis tool designed to help identify GitHub Action security issues. Zizmor scans your workflows and highlights common vulnerabilities, ensuring your (continuous integration / continuous deployment) pipelines remain secure and efficient.

**TODO: link to packaging guide page on CI when it's published friday**

Named as a playful nod to Dr. Zizmor’s famous “clear skin” ads, Zizmor aims to give you “beautiful clean workflows.”

> Learn more about Zizmor on the [official blog post by Yossarian](https://blog.yossarian.net/2024/10/27/Now-you-can-have-beautiful-clean-workflows).

Reviewer 3: Yossarian -> William Woodruff

The [`pull_request_target`](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/events-that-trigger-workflows#pull_request_target) trigger event in GitHub Actions that Ultralytics used, allows workflows to run with elevated permissions on the base branch, even when triggered by changes from a fork. Thus, your workflow becomes vulnerable when used as a trigger to push a release to PyPI.

Instead of a pull_request_target or a pull_request, consider adopting a **release-based publishing workflow**. This approach:

- Triggers publication workflows only on new versioned releases. You can lock down which maintainers are allowed to create releases using GitHub permissions
- Ensure workflows related to publishing are explicitly scoped to `release` events.

In the example GitHub action .yaml file below, you see a `release` trigger defined. This tells the action to only trigger the workflow when you publish a release.

```yaml
name: Publish to PyPI
on:
  # By using release - only people with admin access to make releases to our repo can trigger the push to PyPI

>   release:

Reviewer 3: I think that creating a GitHub Release doesn't require admin access, only write access?

Author: Yup - you're right! i'll fix this

https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/releasing-projects-on-github/managing-releases-in-a-repository

A trigger event in a GitHub Action is an event that sets off an action to run. For instance, you might have a trigger that runs a linter like Black or Ruff when a new pull request is opened.

The [`pull_request_target`](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/events-that-trigger-workflows#pull_request_target) trigger event in GitHub Actions that Ultralytics used allows workflows to run with elevated permissions on the base branch, even when triggered by changes from a fork. Thus, your workflow becomes vulnerable when used as a trigger to push a release to PyPI.

Instead of a pull_request_target or a pull_request, consider adopting a **release-based publishing workflow**. This approach:

- Triggers publication workflows only on new versioned releases. You can lock down which maintainers are allowed to create releases using GitHub permissions
- Ensure workflows related to publishing are explicitly scoped to `release` events.

In the example GitHub Action `.yaml` file below, you see a `release` trigger defined. This tells the action to only trigger the workflow when you publish a release.

```yaml
name: Publish to PyPI
on:

>   # By using release - only people with admin access to make releases to our repo can trigger the push to PyPI
>   release:

Author: ```suggestion
  # By using release as a trigger, only GitHub users and actions with write access to make releases to our repo can trigger the push to PyPI
  release:
```

A GitHub action is a CI/CD (Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment) tool that allows you to automate tests. [Click here to read more about what CI/CI is.](https://www.pyopensci.org/python-package-guide/continuous-integration/ci.html)
{: .notice .notice--success }

If you look at the workflow example below, notice that we have an [environment called `pypi`](https://github.com/pyOpenSci/pyosMeta/blob/2a09fba/.github/workflows/publish-pypi.yml#L57) that is used for trusted publishing. The `pypi` environment creates a direct link between this action and PyPI Trusted Published (discussed below).

```yaml
  publish:
    name: >-
      Publish Python 🐍 distribution 📦 to PyPI
    if: github.repository_owner == 'pyopensci'
    needs:
      - build
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    environment:
      name: pypi
      url: https://pypi.org/p/pyosmeta
```
*****

> To lockdown a GitHub environment:

Author: and I learned a bit of grammar here too. thank you!

  <figcaption>
    To create a new environment to use in a GitHub Action, 1) go to your repo's settings; 2) click <kbd>environment</kbd>; 3) add a new environment. In this screenshot, we already have a <kbd>pypi</kbd> environment created. Note that you can name your environment whatever you want, however, PyPI suggests that you use the name <kbd>pypi</kbd> for a Trusted Publisher workflow.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

<figure>
    <img src="/images/python-packaging/github-action-environment-pypi.png" alt="Screenshot of the GitHub settings interface showing the ‘Environments’ section with configuration options for ‘pypi.’ The ‘Deployment protection rules’ section is visible, with ‘Required reviewers’ enabled and two reviewers listed: ‘lwasser’ and ‘willingc.’ Other options such as ‘Prevent self-review’ and ‘Wait timer’ are present but not enabled.">
  <figcaption>
    GitHub environment settings for “pypi,” displaying deployment protection rules with required reviewers configured for workflow approvals.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

## 2. 🔑 Use Trusted Publisher for PyPI

Now that you have a GitHub environment setup, you can set up Trusted Publisher in your PyPI account.

> A Trusted Publisher setup creates a short-lived secure link between PyPI and your repository.

Author: ```suggestion
A Trusted Publisher setup creates a secure link between PyPI and your repository.
```

thanks Seth! fixed.

  </picture>
  <figcaption>
    Example of the PyPI Trusted Publisher setup in PyPI once you've created the Trusted PuUblisher link by filling the form out above.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

**Note:** Read more here about [support for publishing to GitLab](https://docs.pypi.org/trusted-publishers/adding-a-publisher/#gitlab-cicd) using trusted publishing.
{: .notice }

## 3. Add `zizmor` to your CI workflows

Finally, consider adding [Zizmor](https://woodruffw.github.io/zizmor/) to your CI and pre-commit checks.

Zizmor is a static analysis tool designed to help identify GitHub Action security issues. Zizmor scans your workflows and highlights common vulnerabilities, ensuring your (continuous integration / continuous deployment) pipelines remain secure and efficient.

**TODO: link to packaging guide page on CI when it's published friday**

Named as a playful nod to Dr. Zizmor’s famous “clear skin” ads, Zizmor aims to give you “beautiful clean workflows.”

> Learn more about Zizmor on the [official blog post by Yossarian](https://blog.yossarian.net/2024/10/27/Now-you-can-have-beautiful-clean-workflows).

Author: thank you for this. There are a few folks here I don't know yet :) William is one of them. this addresses Seth's comment above as well.

{: .notice .notice--success }

### How it works

To use zizmor locally to check your workflows, first install it using `pip` or `pipx`:

`pip install zizmor`

Then, ask it to check a specific workflow file (or set of files).

Below, I ran it on our pyosMeta PyPI build. Among other things, it found a template injection risk in our build that we can easily fix by adding a sanitization step discussed below!

PyPI really is on top of things!

```bash
$ zizmor .github/workflows/publish-pypi.yml

error[template-injection]: code injection via template expansion
   --> path/here/pyosMeta/.github/workflows/publish-pypi.yml:97:7
github.ref_name may expand into attacker-controllable code

> ```

Author: Oh! thanks! I've seen console used, but I was never sure about when to use it vs console. that makes a lot of sense!

that was executed because `github.ref` was used without sanitization. This type
of attack, known as **template injection**, allows malicious content in branch
names to be treated as shell commands.

{% include pyos-blockquote.html quote="...is a classic GitHub Actions template injection: the expansion of `github.head_ref || github.ref` is injected directly into the shell’s context, with no quoting or interpolation.." author="https://blog.yossarian.net/2024/12/06/zizmor-ultralytics-injection" class="highlight magenta" %}

Because the branch name wasn’t sanitized, it was treated as a shell command and executed with full permissions. Yikes!

In the example below, an unsanitized branch name could execute harmful commands:

```yaml
jobs:
  example-job:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Run a script
        run: |
          echo "Running script for branch: $GITHUB_REF"
```

To prevent this, [sanitize or clean](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/using-git/dealing-with-special-characters-in-branch-and-tag-names) branch names before using them. A small Bash step can
remove unsafe characters:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

jobs:
  example-job:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Sanitize branch name
        run: |
          SAFE_BRANCH=$(echo $GITHUB_REF | sed 's/[^a-zA-Z0-9_\-\/]//g')
          echo "Sanitized branch name: $SAFE_BRANCH"
          echo "Running script for branch: $SAFE_BRANCH"
```

## Lock down GitHub permissions & delete old PyPI tokens and GitHub secrets

In addition to securing your workflows, lock down your accounts and repositories. 2FA (2-factor authentication) is thankfully now required as a security measure for both GitHub and PyPI. However, be sure to store your recovery codes somewhere safe (like in a password manager!).

Also consider:

- **Revoking old tokens**: If you've previously created PyPI API tokens and/or associated GitHub secrets, delete any unused or outdated ones.
- **Restrict repository access**: Limit write GitHub repository access to a trusted subset of maintainers. Most contributors don’t need direct write access, which reduces security risks.

### 🚫 Avoid `pull_request_target` and consider release-based workflows

> A trigger event in a GitHub action is an event that sets off an action to run. For instance, you might have a trigger that runs a linter like Black or Ruff when a new pull request is opened.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A trigger event in a GitHub Action is an event that sets off an action to run. For instance, you might have a trigger that runs a linter like Black or Ruff when a new pull request is opened.
```

The [`pull_request_target`](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/events-that-trigger-workflows#pull_request_target) trigger event in GitHub Actions that Ultralytics used allows workflows to run with elevated permissions on the base branch, even when triggered by changes from a fork. Thus, your workflow becomes vulnerable when used as a trigger to push a release to PyPI.

Instead of a pull_request_target or a pull_request, consider adopting a **release-based publishing workflow**. This approach:

- Triggers publication workflows only on new versioned releases. You can lock down which maintainers are allowed to create releases using GitHub permissions
- Ensure workflows related to publishing are explicitly scoped to `release` events.

> In the example GitHub action .yaml file below, you see a `release` trigger defined. This tells the action to only trigger the workflow when you publish a release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example GitHub Action `.yaml` file below, you see a `release` trigger defined. This tells the action to only trigger the workflow when you publish a release.
```

## 2. Don’t cache package dependencies in your publish step

Caching dependencies involves storing them to be reused in future workflow runs. This approach saves time, as GitHub doesn’t need to redownload all dependencies each time the workflow runs.

TODO: create graphic about reusing dependencies

However, caching dependencies can allow attackers to manipulate cached artifacts, such as dependencies. If this happens, the workflow may pull in compromised versions from the cache during the next run.

**Takeaway:**  Don’t cache dependencies in your Python package publishing workflow. Always download fresh dependencies to ensure you’re using the latest secure versions of any packages your project depends on.

Below is an example of a build that caches dependencies.

```yaml
name: Build and Test

on:
  push:
    branches:
      - main
  pull_request:

jobs:
  build:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    steps:
      # Step 1: Check out the repository
      - name: Check out repository
        uses: actions/checkout@v3

      # Step 2: Set up Python
      - name: Set up Python
        uses: actions/setup-python@v4
        with:

>           python-version: '3.9'

Author: ```suggestion
          python-version: '3.12'
```

      # Step 3: Cache dependencies

>       - name: Cache dependencies

Author: This is not tested and could be wrong.

Author: oh, right, good point.  What is a good example of caching dependencies (other than what we say with ultranalytics)? I use caching when i'm publishing. 

we pip install hatch and use `hatch build`

What do you think about removing the example and just telling people that if they do cache dependencies for any reason, don't do it when the build is for publishing? 

for instance, doing it for a website build could be ok if it's a preview, etc. vs publishing a package?

Reviewer 4: Send me a message I can definitely help you recover back your account 👨‍💻
